---
keywords: fastai
description: "Notes from Lesson 1 of fastai v4"
title: "fastai v4: Lesson 1"
author: "<a href='https://www.linkedin.com/in/tmbeck'>Tim Beck</a>"
toc: true
comments: false
categories: [education, fastai]
badges: true
layout: post
---
# Lesson 1

Notes from fastai lesson 1.

### Links

* [Lesson 1 Video](https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=1)
* [fastai Forum](https://forums.fast.ai/)

### Notes

1. Discussed what's needed to take this course (not much!).
2. Discussed history of AI and how deep neural networks came to be. Mostly news to me, 1/10.
3. Introduced Jupyter, ipywidgets, REPL. Mostly seen this before, 7/10.
4. Introduced ML (repeat, but still new, 4/10)
 - take an input, process it, get an output. 
 - Samuel's terminology: take inputs & weights into a model, generate results
 - Add feedback: measure performance of the results (a metric), then change weights. Rinse & repeat.
 - Different weights to the model allows it to do a different task
 - Universal approximation theorem: theory that a neural network could solve any problem to any level of accuracy.
 - Need a way to update weights - SGD: stochastic gradient descent - to update the weights
5. Jargon

| Keyword       | Description |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| Architecture  | The "program" we are running. Often synonymous with model, but represents its functional form.. |
| Parameters    | The "weights" into the "program" |
| Predictions | The output of our architecture, computed from independent variables which does not include labels |
| Labels | The targets or dependent variables, assumed to be true for a given prediction.|
| Loss | A metric of performance we measure our model by: how well did our prediction (computed from independent variables) match our labels (our dependent variables)?|
| Model | The combination of the parameters and architecture that can act on inputs to generate a prediction.|
| Inputs | The data on which the model acts to generate a prediction. No inputs (data) == No predictions!|
| Action | The decision made from reasoning about a given prediction.

From the loss, we can /update/ the weight for a given input, thus allowing our system to learn.

6. ML Limitations

- A model can only be created from data
- A model can only learn from patterns in the inputs
- A model can only make a prediction - actions happen externally

Labeled data is key and often missing - good part, bad part, etc.

It is important to note that a feedback loop can be created, resulting in a causal relationship where none existed before. Jeremy gave an example in [lesson 1](https://youtu.be/_QUEXsHfsA0?t=3677). This goes to ethics along ML and understanding inherent biases in your training dataset that you may not be aware of.

7. The fastai notebook

Intro to fastai. Discuss REPL, data sets, etc.

```python
from fastai.vision.all import *
```

```python
learner = cnn_learner(dls, resnet34, metrics=error_rate)
```

Here `cnn_learner` is a function that generates our model, `dls` is our dataset, `resnet34` is our architecture, and `error_rate` is a loss function for feedback.

`resnet34` is a predefined neural network trained on images that is free to use. `34` indicates it has 34 layers, more layers requires more GPU memory.

`error_rate` is computed on data not used in training, also known as a holdout set or validation set, to help avoid overfitting. Might need to increase the size of the holdout set to avoid overfitting. The ambiguiuty is actually important in model building, otherwise the model will only know how to recognize images it has seen before.

8. Other uses

segmentation: figuring out what every pixel in an image is (what label it corresponds to)

For a PWA, labels might be

* trace, screw, via, component

A larger training set might allow

* trace, via, capacitor, resistor, inductor, transistor, integrated circuit, etc.

Project idea: create an architecture for use in image segmentation that is trained on images of various PWAs (raspberry Pis, motherboards, etc.) to recognize features.

tabular data: fitting a model to predict salary based on a variety of parameters, predicting ratings a user might give a movie they haven't seen based on previous ratings they have given (known as collaboration, used in recommendation engines)

## Homework

Do the questionaire, run the notebooks, etc.