---
title: "fastai v4: Lesson 2"
description: "Notes from Lesson 2 of fastai v4"
author: "<a href='https://www.linkedin.com/in/tmbeck'>Tim Beck</a>"
toc: true
comments: false
keywords: fastai
categories: [education, fastai]
badges: true
layout: post
---
# Lesson 2

Notes from fastai lesson 2.

## Links

* [Lesson 2 Video](https://course.fast.ai/videos/?lesson=2)
* [fastai Forum](https://forums.fast.ai/)
* [Model Zoo](https://modelzoo.co/)
* [ONNX Models](https://github.com/onnx/models)

## Notes

Transfer learning: using an existing architecture to create a model trained on a particular data set

Error is one kind of metric, measuring "how well you're doing"
Loss is a measure of performance used to improve the parameters. "Are we learning (adjusting our parameters)?"

## Jargon

|Jargon We Use (again)|Description|
|:---:|:---|
|Label|The data we're trying to predict (recall the diagram)|
|Architecture|A template of the model we are trying to fit. It represents the mathematical function we pass inputs & parameters to.|
|Model|An architecture with a specific set of parameters. The parameters may be created through training over one or more epochs.|
|Parameters|The values of the model that we can alter trough training.|
|Fit or Train|Updating the parameters such that the model is better able to predict our labels.|
|Pretrained model|A model with parameters adjusted via training, typically will be `fine_tune()`d, such as `resnet34`.|
|fine tune|Update a pretrained model for another task, such as making `resnet34` recognize cats or dogs.|
|epoch|One complete pass through the input data|
|metric|A measure of how good the model is to control training via SGD|
|validation set|A subset of our data we do not train our model with to measure its performance|
|training set|A subset of our data we train our model with that does not include any data from the validation set|
|overfitting|Training a model that results in memorization rather than generalization|
|cnn|A convolutional neural network, a type of NN suited for computer vision|

## Flash Cards:

* Architecture vs. Model?
    * A model includes an architecture with a specific set of parameters. These parameters allow the architecture to do something it wasn't originally designed to do.

## Where is Deep Learning good?

1. Computer Vision - detection & classification
2. Text - Classifiction & conversation (but not really)
3. Tabular - Effective on high cardinality datasets, e.g. part numbers and serial numbers
4. Recommendation Systems (Recsys, aka Collaborative Filtering), but note predictions <> recommendations - because you like to read science fiction, a model might predict you'll like Aasimov - but that might not be what you want from a recommendation engine e.g. if you're branching out to Romance.
4. Multi-modal - Combining the above, capition images, humans in the loop
5. Various other - NLP, protein

## Products in the wild

1. [Arsenal 2](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/2092430307/arsenal-2/description), combining a camera with an AI platform
2. [Birdsy](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/birdsy/birdsy-ai-records-and-ids-birds-and-wildlife-for-you), using computer vision to classify birds in real time


# Questionnaire

22. Can we always use a random sample for a validation set? Why or why not?

    * If we used a random sample for validation, then repeated training (e.g. resampling the random data set and training the model on the resampled data) we could overfit our model.
    * If we use a static sample for validation, then repeated training won't be able to overfit, because it will never learn from the validation set.
    * For example, with time series data we may hold out a specific period (say the last two weeks) of data as a validation set, rather than a random sampling of the dataset..

23. What is overfitting? Provide an example.

    * Overfitting is the process of a model "memorizing" a given dataset. This can happen when our learning rate continues to increase and our error rate tends to zero. For example, if you overtrained a model on your entire dataset of cats, it would not be able to perform inference on new cat photos it has never seen before.

24. What is a metric? How does it differ from "loss"?

    * A metric is all we care about: it is how well our model performs on our validation set. 

25. How can pretrained models help?

26. What is the "head" of a model?

27. What kinds of features do the early layers of a CNN find? How about the later layers?

28. Are image models only useful for photos?

29. What is an "architecture"?

30. What is segmentation?

31. What is y_range used for? When do we need it?

32. What are "hyperparameters"?

33. What's the best way to avoid failures when using AI in an organization?

